Andres Fonseca & John Delaney
CMSC 123 Project Proposal 
 
        	We hope to perform analysis on an airline flight pricing dataset. Our goal is to construct a model that, given a future flight, a query date and a time interval, will return the probability that the price of the specified flight will increase over the specified time interval from the query date.
Our data is from Amadeus Data Processing and contains all relevant information concerning domestic airline flights. For now, we’ve already secured over 100 MB of training data that covers flights leaving from chicago over the last 90 days and are currently working on getting the rest of the data.

	We view our project as having two parts. We first want to establish clusters of “similar flights,” that is to say flights whose prices move in a similar fashion leading up to the departure date of the flight. Using these clusters, we want to build a regression model with parameters specific to each cluster to relate past prices to future prices for a given flight.  The second part of our project is then to classify a flight into a given cluster so that we can use our model to determine the magnitude and direction of a price shift for a given flight. 

	Right now we view the establishment of clusters of “similar flights” as our biggest obstacle to overcome. The main problem we have encountered is that it is unclear how many clusters of “similar flights” exists so it has been difficult to apply any of the clustering algorithms covered in class to our data. We have been researching other methods but would appreciate any suggestions for other methods to approach this problem. As for our regression model, we plan to construct a time series model to predict the evolution of flight prices over time. The effectiveness of this model will also largely be dependant on our ability to cluster flights. As for our classifier which we plan to apply to each new flight queried we plan to implement the k-nearest neighbor algorithm to classify each flight into a given cluster. With this information we hope to be able to provide information on whether we can expect the price of a given flight will increase or decrease over a given time frame.

	Our goal as for a prototype is to construct clusters of data using our restricted dataset and provide summary statistics regarding the clusters we have discovered. So far, all development has been done using python using scipy and numpy but we have been exploring the scikit-learn library for more advanced statistical tools. 
