===
Prototype Overview
===

Our project prototype is comprised of two python scripts to handle data processing and
an R script for data analysis. Currently, the only input for the prototype is the time
delta used to calculate the differences between airline fare prices. That input is used
to create an additional column in our dataset, a binary variable indicating whether or
not a given flight's fare increased or decreased over the given time delta which is the
dependent variable in our model.

The data in our csv files was scraped from a variety of travel websites and compiled by 
an independent company, QL2, that specializes in data scraping. Despite being 
professionally prepared, our data is not necessarily complete because of a decision to 
scrape data further into the future at the expense of ensuring that every flight has 
fare quotes for large contiguous periods of time. This presented problems in our later 
analysis because, when generating our binary variable indicating whether a fare price 
has increased or decreased over a given time period, some flights have no fare entries 
x days into the future with which to compare to the current fare price.

Data processing consists primarily of reading data from csv files and adding that data
to a local database. This consists of properly formatting data as the correct type so
that it can be more easily analyzed in R. The only significant preprocessing in the 
process is the generation of the dependent variable in our model. This was achieved by
creating a nested dictionary to expedite the process of searching for future fare prices
so that the change in fare can be calculated.

Once the data has been processed, we use R’s built in methods to fit a logistic regression
to our data. This regression serves primarily as a classifier for our dataset rather than
as an argument for a relation between two given variables. This is due in part to the
fact that the regression we are running is designed to be a naive attempt as a model 
rather than a serious attempt at modeling flight prices. We feel that this prototype is
most useful as a baseline metric with which to compare future models to.

Unfortunately, this prototype hasn't shed much light on our project beyond establishing
a baseline for future models. This is because this model has failed to be a robust model
for a relationship between the covariates and our dependent variable. When we look at
model diagnostics such as normality of the residuals or independence of the residuals
and fitted values, we fail to observe these characteristics implying that the underlying
assumptions necessary for statistical inference from the model. 

In many ways the naive construction of our model contributed to the inefficacy of this
model. Specifically, by choosing to include multiple factors as covariates such as
airline route, days to departure, or airline, we introduced a large number of binary
dummy variables into our model which resulted in a design matrix that was not full rank.
This implies that we have chosen to include too many factors into our model because some
combinations of factors describe only one data point rather than a collection. This
leads us to conclude that we could significantly improve our model by identifying similar
factors and grouping them together.

Viewing our model as a baseline, we can compare the classification error to future 
models as the rate to beat for future models. In addition, despite its inability to 
speak to the relationship between the covariates and our dependent variable, the model
identifies many of the factors including current fare as statistically significant in 
the model. This gives us indications of which variables we should consider as candidates 
to be part of more serious future models.

This has significantly affected our approach to this project because it has given us a
basis on which to conduct future analysis. When starting this project, we were of the
mindset that we could get at this problem through a combination of clever modeling and
luck. Now we are taking a more serious approach to the data by more rigorously
identifying factors that may play a role in our model. Our goals now are to identify
a set of factors which we think play a significant role in predicting the change in
fare price and then test those hypotheses.

With this in mind, looking forward, we see the main obstacles in our analysis center
on gaining better familiarity with the technical tools required to do our analysis.
Thus far the most significant obstacle we have encountered have been finding the
appropriate line of analysis to take with our data. As a secondary obstacle, we have
run into the technical problems of attempting implement our analysis in R which has
proved to be more difficult than expected. That said, we have made significant
progress toward overcoming both of these obstacles and are confident about proceeding
further.
